a senior Hamas leader has hit back at
Suggestions by Israel that it will take
charge of security in Gaza after the
fighting has stopped Usama hamdan says
Palestinians in the strip will not
accept being governed by
Outsiders we say to the US
Administration and to the leaders of the
occupation Gaza will be ruled only by
its people we are free people and we do
not accept being under the custodianship
of anyone our blood and our lives will
the price for our freedom and for the
Dignity of our steadfast and persevering
people whose greatness and Grandeur
words fail to describe so spare
yourselves the trouble of thinking and
think how the enemy should climb down
from the tree before they burn down with
the tree no one will ride your tanks to
Gaza except for traitors and you won't
find any of them who dares to do so well
the Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
has said the Palestinian Authority could
play a future role but the Palestine
Liberation or organization's former
legal adviser Diana Buu says that's not
realistic right now what the US is
trying to do is they're trying to put in
a pseudo Palestinian government one that
they like into the Gaza Strip and I can
I can tell you that there's going to be
no Palestinian leader that wants to be
seen as entering the Gaza Strip on the
back of an Israeli bulldozer on the back
of an Israeli tank that's just simply
not going to happen but more importantly
this is the same Palestinian Authority
that on October the 6 that the United
States had been had been maligning that
had they had effectively turned into
persona non grada so it's like they pull
out this puppet when they want it and
then put it away when they don't want it
this is where I mean what this is what I
mean when I say it's up for Palestinians
to decide we need to have our own
internal elections we need to decide
what shape and form it is of our freedom
that it's going to look like but first
and foremost the bombing needs to end
and this apartheid system must come to
an end let's not bring in our senior
political analyst Marwan Bashar Marwan
so you know comments being made about
the the future of Gaza and who will
control Gaza once uh this war is over
Netanyahu said that he won't give up
control over Security in Gaza under any
circumstances and he's opposed to uh the
Palestinian Authority um governing Gaza
I mean what do you make of all these
comments that are being said well first
of all I'm not sure uh Netanyahu is
going to survive much after this war so
when he talks about uh
Gaza is going to be under occupation
under any circumstance there's one that
circumstance where he's not going to be
prime minister because he's certainly
not a popular man in in Israel he's just
moved from being a political criminal to
being a a war
criminal and I agree with much of what
been said about Palestinians don't need
a trustees ship and they certainly don't
deserve to be
occupied if anything uh the Palestinian
people have proven once and again over
the past 75 years not only that they are
people because nowadays there are these
campaigns that Palestinians are not
numbers that they are people
Palestinians are great people not just
any people and they prove to be so if
you look at the record if you look at
like a record of literacy you look at as
achievements you look at the the nature
of the Palestinian society and its
ability for steadfastness under 56 years
of occupation if you look at the
Palestinians in The Refuge uh in the
various Arab count countries if you look
at at the Palestinians expats in various
Western countries the Palestinians are
more than an able people the
Palestinians have proved to be some of
the brightest people in this region and
in the world they are more than capable
of ruling themselves the Palestinians
however like other Arabs in fact like
other people around the world they
deserve better leadership I mean America
deserves better leadership right
certainly Israel deserves about the
leadership the Palestinians have not
been lucky with their leadership and I
think what this crisis this this
genocide has proven to the world that
once the Palestinian people take their
own story on their
own when they recover their narrative
and now we're hearing more and more from
the thousands of Palestinians in
Palestine and Beyond telling their own
stories from their own words about who
they are what they stand for what they
want and what they are going
through I think at last they are
achieving something I think the world
public opinion is
responding to the Israeli uh to the
Palestinian narrative to the Palestinian
human story more than they are for a
change to the Israeli propaganda and
certainly more than they have in the
past to the Palestinian propaganda that
was basically a major failure but today
the Palestinian are telling the human
stories and they are watching those
those incredible doctors and nurses this
that Health Care Workforce education
Workforce and other people in Gaza
sacrificing their lives to saves their
the others they are willing to stay
under bombings in order to save the
others their steadfastness have taught
us all have taught the world a lesson in
humanity those people need to be free
those people need Justice now and how
does this change that you refer to in
sort of public opinion as well as all
the protests that we've been seeing uh
right around the world how does that
translate into policy and have you do
you think that it's going to translate
into policy because we still haven't
seen the United States call for a
ceasefire we still haven't seen the
United Kingdom call for a ceasefire
those Western governments are still
supporting Israel Believe It or Not also
the Arab governments and the Palestinian
government still not acting according
accordingly to what we are seeing from
the Palestinians I mean president Abbas
should now allow for Palestinians to
protest peacefully peacefully in the
West Bank in solidarity with the people
in Gaza they're not even allowed in in
in Palestine to protest to demonstrate
in
solidarity but those who are able to
demonstrate in the Arab and Muslim World
in Western
capitals the Palestinians are in the
Forefront now in various Western
capitals from Latin America to Europe to
parts of Asia even Africa the
Palestinians message the Palestinian
narrative the Palestinian Story the
Palestinian humanity is reaching out and
that's why in the United States there's
a majority of Americans now want a
ceasefire in Europe a majority wants a
ceasefire what so the public opinion is
changing American public opinion is
changing but American Congress is
basically bought out by lobbies and it
has not changed the American
Administration is Blinded By Its support
to Israel and it has not changed but we
can see already some change for example
the French President it is not a
coincident that the French President an
important superpower or at least a
European power and we've seen others I
mean just listening to the narratives
coming out of Belgium Ireland Spain and
other places we are seeing cracks in
that solid
pro-israeli line that we've seen in the
earlier days how much does this work wor
Israel do you think I think it worries
Israel a lot actually if you listen to
some of the Israelis talk among
themselves they're almost admitting that
they have they are losing the the the U
the public opinion around the world as
as you stated correctly there are some
leaders now that remain stuck in the
past as if you can continue with
occupation uh open-endedly as if you can
continue with a racist system or part
continuously as if Europe can continue
to treat Israel like it's a spoiled brat
continuously without anyone paying a
price at least in terms of their
reputation and their International
standing while Israel carries out its
genocide now with the social media
possibilities with the international
media possibilities with cameras and and
as I st and I could I can't state that
you know more the importance the fact
that the Palestinian people Palestinian
Society Palestinian experts and refugees
Palestinian citizens on occupation are
telling their stories and they are
reaching other people around the world
and that's making a difference because
once again it's not about per Being
Human and people of course they are
human and people they are great human
great people for being able to be such a
people after 56 years of occupation and
75 years of dispossession there remain
to be some of the most literate people
in the world today today like 99.5% of
Palestinians are literate so many of
their young have achieved higher
education we see them in Western
universities leading departments leading
in sciences and social sciences and so
on so forth that people that great
people deserve Independence deserve
sovereignty deserve justice and
certainly deserve to take their own
Affairs into their own hands no more
trusteeship and certainly no more
occupation look mad one of the stories
and the narratives that we've been
covering here in the past few hours
certainly is coming out of alifa
hospital where uh we're hearing it's
practically run out of everything three
newborn babies have already died uh the
the director was telling us he does
expect more unfortunately to die if they
don't get fuel into the into the
hospital and and one of the uh comments
that the director made uh to us was he
was saying that the ra Crossing needs to
be open to be allowed to for a
humanitarian Aid to be allowed in I mean
for for some viewers who may think well
why is the ra Crossing not being open by
Egypt why is that and what what are
Egypt's obligations here Egypt is
failing its responsibility moral
responsibility legal responsibility and
political responsibility and I'm not
talking Egypt as a country of course
talking about the government in Egypt
needs to move
because president ce's speech was
formidable at uh RI
exactly at the Arab Muslim Summit but
that speech need to be translated into
reality now Egypt has the force of 57
countries behind it that do not accept
the Israeli genocide and do not accept
the pretext of right to self-defense and
they want to change the status quo and
they want to reach out and help the
Palestinians so Egypt can start and
should start to do so as soon as
possible but I also think that the thing
that you and I are talking about that
that Egypt understands as others
understand the inhumanity of the Israeli
occupation the inhumanity of this War I
mean the fact that it started by
dehumanizing the Palestinians that's
already should have been red flagged for
everyone in the world especially the
Biden administration because once you
start dehumanizing people you call them
all of them guilty and you call them all
of them Human animals while you are the
human animal while you are the actual
walking animal in the way you carry war
of genocide against an entire people
destroying hospitals schools mosques
residential buildings that's inhuman and
that is what's going on today I think
Egypt and the Egyptian Society the Arab
Society we said public opinion is
changing the problem is uh darina it's
not changing fast enough because as you
stated
well babies are dying hospitals are
running out of everything fuel food and
and so on so forth the people in Gaza
are still holding to one another I mean
again hear the human story they are
helping shelter one another you have a
you have little Shacks of 60 square
meters hosting 40 50 60 people people
are taking care of one another they are
withstanding this vicious war of
genocide against the people they are ex
they are expressing their atmost
Humanity today those people deserve
justice those people deserve Freedom
they don't deserve a nanaho and Biden
irresponsibly criminally continuing this
war all right thank you so muchan bishar
thank you we appreciate it